.TH GITPULSE 1 "March 2026" "1.1.0" "GitPulseMLC Manual"
.SH NAME
gitpulse \- Monitor the heartbeat of local Git repositories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gitpulse
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gitpulse
is a high-performance dashboard designed to monitor a large number of local Git repositories simultaneously. It provides a centralized view of your development environment, ensuring you never lose track of uncommitted changes, unpushed branches, or stale worktrees.
.PP
The tool operates on a "Read-Only" principle, meaning it does not modify any files or perform network operations unless explicitly configured to do so (e.g., it reads .git/FETCH_HEAD to determine the last fetch time).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-all
Enable verbose mode. Displays details for all local branches, including ahead/behind counts relative to their tracking branches, and information about active stashes.
.TP
.B \-\-compact
Enable compact mode. Only repositories that require action (dirty state, ahead/behind commits, or stashes) will be displayed. Clean repositories are hidden.
.TP
.B \-\-progress
Show a real-time scanning progress indicator on stderr. Only applicable in TUI mode.
.TP
.B \-\-html
Output results as a standalone, high-contrast HTML report. Useful for generating automated status emails.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output results in JSON format for programmatic processing or data export.
.TP
.B \-\-no-color
Disable ANSI color output and use plain text. Also affects HTML output.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print a summary of command-line options and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The tool looks for a configuration file named \fBrepos.ini\fR. It searches in the following order:
1. Path provided via \fB--config\fR flag.
2. Path in \fBGITPULSE_CONFIG\fR environment variable.
3. \fBconfig/repos.ini\fR in the current directory.
4. \fB~/.gitpulsemlc/repos.ini\fR in the user's home directory.
.PP
.B [projects]
.br
This section maps project names to their absolute filesystem paths.
.br
Example: \fImy-app = /mnt/data2tb/dev/my-app\fR
.PP
.B [general]
.br
\fBreplace_path_prefix\fR: A filesystem prefix to be replaced in the output (e.g., /mnt/data2tb).
.br
\fBreplace_with\fR: The replacement string (e.g., "@").
.PP
.B [settings]
.br
\fBcolumn_name_width\fR: Minimum width for the project name column (default: 25).
.br
\fBshow_summary\fR: Boolean to toggle the final summary block (default: true).
.br
\fBcompact_mode\fR: Boolean to enable compact mode by default (default: false).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I config/repos.ini
The primary configuration file containing the list of repositories to monitor.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
A fatal error occurred (e.g., config file not found or unreadable).
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Lechner
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2026 Michael Lechner. Licensed under the MIT License.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1)
